---
serial: 1
name: Random Table
status: SUCCESS
goal: Webapp that rolls random tables.
date: 2018-05-01
---

My choice to use React was troublesome. I can't easily fit a build step into 
jekyll in a way that github pages would honor, so I need to run react with 
without babel.

There is [an in browser version of 
babel](https://github.com/babel/babel-standalone). It will be slow but fine for 
small one day projects like these. [now part of 
bable](https://github.com/babel/babel/tree/master/packages/babel-standalone).

This 
[gist](https://gist.github.com/kentcdodds/5274dfa1eb31e6d22b9eddd1efc773dc) 
guided the way for how to get this working.

Okay, now that I have the boilerplate working, I should begin to work on design. 

The main goal is something that resolves several random tables quickley. Today 
some things may be hard coded, but later I will set it up to accept the tables 
in a json format or something. It is going to be based on "Stocking A Dungeon" 
Section of "Dungeon Master's Guide" (5e). Those tables aren't open content, so 
I'm going to use the same format but make my own tables. 

Each room has 
1. Purpose - what the room is used for, like kitchen or armory. It's rolled off a table based on the purpose of the dungeon. 
2. State - What kind of damage time and wandering creaturs have done to the room. One table. 
3. Contents - Monster, Treasure, Traps. This is where it gets interesting, because most of these options branch to different rolls on sub tables. 

I think nested react components are the best way to do this. 

I initialy planned to have a TableRoll component and subclass it to make 
specific tables, but [React reccomends against 
inheritance](https://reactjs.org/docs/composition-vs-inheritance.html).

Having trouble with getting it to update from a button.

Got distracted for a bit, I'm going to scale it back so I can consider it finished today. Dropping the selection. Might still do Subtables. 

I didn't get it doing everything I wanted but it does something and I reinforced y knowledge of react design patterns. Calling it a success.
